Scheduling a PC Maintenance Task in Task Scheduler
This guide explains how to schedule a PC maintenance task using Task Scheduler on Windows. The task will automatically run a PowerShell script at a specified time to perform maintenance, such as clearing temp files, emptying the recycle bin, and defragmenting the drive.

Prerequisites
Before scheduling the task, ensure you have:
✅ A PowerShell script (PC_Maintenance.ps1) saved in a known location.
✅ Administrator privileges on your Windows PC.

Step-by-Step Guide
Step 1: Open Task Scheduler
Press Win + R, type taskschd.msc, and press Enter.
In the Task Scheduler window, click Create Basic Task in the right pane.
Step 2: Configure Basic Task
Name the Task: Enter a name like PC Maintenance and click Next.
Choose the Frequency: Select one of the following based on how often you want the script to run:
Daily – Runs every day at a specific time.
Weekly – Runs on specific days of the week.
Monthly – Runs on a set date each month.
Click Next and choose the start date and time.
Step 3: Set the Action
Select Start a Program and click Next.
In the Program/script box, enter:
Copy
Edit
powershell.exe
In the Add arguments (optional) box, enter the following command:
arduino
Copy
Edit
-ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File "C:\Path\to\PC_Maintenance.ps1"
(Replace "C:\Path\to\PC_Maintenance.ps1" with the actual file path of your script.)
Click Next to proceed.
Step 4: Configure Task Settings
Check "Open the Properties dialog for this task when I click Finish" and click Finish.
In the General tab:
Check Run with highest privileges to ensure admin-level access.
Under Configure for, select Windows 10/11 (or your version).
Go to the Conditions tab:
Uncheck Start the task only if the computer is on AC power (if you want it to run on battery).
Click OK to save the task.
Step 5: Verify the Task
In Task Scheduler, locate PC Maintenance under Task Scheduler Library.
Right-click it and select Run to test if the script executes successfully.
Check for a log file (if implemented in the script) to confirm the task ran properly.
Troubleshooting
🔹 Task doesn’t run?

Ensure the PowerShell script is accessible (correct file path).
Check the Task Scheduler history/logs for errors.
Ensure Run with highest privileges is enabled.
🔹 Need admin permissions?

Run Task Scheduler as an administrator.
Conclusion
By following this guide, you have successfully automated a PC maintenance task using Windows Task Scheduler. The scheduled script will now run at your chosen frequency, ensuring regular cleanup and optimization.